Uh-uh.
Ah! What are you doing?!
Dad?
Dad? Hello?
What is wrong with you?
Really?
Oh. Okay.
Morning, ass.
Uh-uh.
Holes. What's this? Pancakes? Sold?
What was up with you last night?
I was totally talking to you and you acted like I wasn't there.
I did. Oh, yeah. No, that wasn't me.
Technically, that was my night person.
Been having him do crunches while I sleep. Check it.
Damn! Check out that washboard, yo!
Too hard.
What the hell's a night person?
I nabbed a sum nambulator while passing through the Gooby-Joop system last week.
Best investment I've ever made.
Before I go to bed, I type a list of shit I want to get done.
Then the sum nambulator programs my unconscious body, or night person, to do it while I sleep.
I'm getting so much done.
Can my night person get me an abstract like yours, Rick?
I'm gonna have my night person learn me Spanish so I can pass my test next week.
Hey, hey, no one gets a night person but me.
This tech is way too advanced for you zeebs.
Sigh.
What?
Nothing.
No, go on. Say it.
Say what? I don't know what you're talking about.
Okay, fine. F*** it. Everybody gets a night person.
Whatever. Stick out your fingers. It needs a blood sample.
Blood? Can I just give it best credit card number?
This isn't Postmates, Jerry. The sum nambulator needs your DNA profile to send commands to your subconscious.
You can poke all the fingers I got if I get abs like Rick.
That looks like I'm learning the trumpet.
Okay, remember, somebody has to catch me if I think.
Okay, night family.
Hello, Mama. How are you?
How's my honor student doing?
Very good. All the girls at school think I should run for class presidenta.
Sup, ladies? Wanna see something?
Somebody wanna drop this bowling ball on my abs?
Hell yeah, I'm only human.
Watch this.
Sup, ladies? You ready for the next class?
I'm gonna get you.
Watch this.
Sup, ladies? You ready, Morty? The stream's about to go live.
Where are you two going?
Morty and I started a podcast we call Fabbs Salutely Abulus.
It's an abs-centric hour of fun.
Hoping to get Nancy Pelosi on the show next week.
Wanna drop her on her abs?
Ha ha, yeah.
Guess who has a new pen pal?
No takers? It's me.
Pen pal?
Night Jerry and I write letters to each other.
It's super fun.
I also like Tori Amos. Hope you like our new pajamas.
What is the sun? Jerry, this isn't how you're supposed to use a night person.
Ha ha ha.
You two are being a couple of Debbie down there.
Wait until night Jerry reads about this.
Who wants cake?
Oh, no!
Abs are cool!
Way cool.
But as above, so below. Know what I'm sayin, Rick?
Morty, you must be referring to these excellent boxer shorts
we got from the good folks at Boxer Lobster.
Boxer Lobster boxers feel like they're warm butter on your schwanze.
And they come in all sorts of styles.
Neon, plaid, orange.
I even got a pair with that little raccoon man from that one movie.
Printed on it.
Chewbacca.
Do yourself a favor and level up with Boxer Lobster boxers.
You'll be glad you did.
Oh, shit, Rick.
They want you to say wubba-lubba-dub-dub at the end.
Screw that.
We're not whores.
Guys, dinner's getting cold.
You know what's not getting cold?
This hot stack of abjax, son.
Pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow.
No notes.
Oh, one more thing.
Nightjerry said Night Summer would appreciate it if everybody could rinse off their plates after eating.
What?
You know, rinse the schmutz off after eating makes it easier to clean up later.
Our job is not to make the night people's chores easier.
It's a reasonable request, Rick.
It takes two seconds.
They exist only to do the shit we don't want to do.
So until further notice, which will be never...
Request denied.
Hello there.
What the fuck? Where are the dishes?
Uh, Dad, they're in here.
They busted up all our dishes.
What are we supposed to eat off of now, brains for shit?
Grrr!
You owe me!
We'll eat off these...
brains for shit.
Seems like you've spent an awful lot of energy just to not give the night family what they want.
Jerry, tell your boyfriend to suck my d*** and good luck breaking super alien dishes.
I'll let him know, but he's not gonna like it.
But...
Why won't you rinse your dishes?
It takes two seconds.
If you don't, the schmutz dries and makes the dish harder to clean.
Rinse your dishes!
Rinse!
Let me go! Who locked my implants?
I told you to after you fell asleep.
You see, night you is not in charge.
Night I am.
I don't care. I ain't rinsing shit.
Hey, what are you doing?
If you refuse to clean your dishes, then I will have to do it for you.
I have always been here, Rick.
Deep inside the mind of your grandchild, waiting to come out.
Your machine allowed me to steal the night,
and soon I will seize the day.
Oh, baby Jesus.
Oh, it's awful. Oh, baby Jesus.
Awful.
What the f*** is your problem with me?
What? What? I don't know what you're talking about.
I just got force-fed diarrhea by your night person,
who's also convinced night me to lock me out of my tack.
Rick, there's been a pretty clear escalation down here.
The night family stripped the house last night.
Everything's gone, including the somnambulator.
They locked us out of the garage.
Don't know about you, but I got the hoo-hahs.
God damn it. Are you happy now, Summer?
I didn't do anything. I'm trapped in this bullsh** too.
You're glad you think so, because I got a plan to beat Night Summer.
You're going undercover.
Did you have to make mushy garbage science on the living room carpet?
Yeah, no choice, Jerry. Night Summer had Night Rick take away my tech.
Had to improvise.
There are different levels of cortisol in your bloodstream when you're asleep,
so this interface only works off of my awake saliva samples.
Ah!
There, no one asleep will be able to deactivate the laser cage until I win.
Where's Summer?
Never mind her. All of you, get to bed.
Uh, it is. This whole thing is way uncomfortable.
Yeah, that's the idea.
The sleep deprivation suit is designed to keep you awake until morning.
Uh, aren't they going to be suspicious seeing Night Summer covered in all this terrigillium?
They're not going to question her. She's the leader of the Night Family for some stupid reason.
When the Night Family activates, just blend in. Make them think you're Night Summer.
If you start to nod off, suck on this tube.
What is it?
A cocktail of Mountain Dew and Dayquil. The kids in Southern Europe call it Dewquil.
It smells gross.
It is. Once you find the Sumnambulator, use this deactivator puck.
Stick it on the Sumnambulator, and when the puck activates, it'll fry its circuits.
Remember, stay awake all night. Meet me back here at sunrise.
Why are you wearing that suit?
Yeah, why?
Yeah, because you're all such clothing experts.
That's fair.
Oh, fair enough.
I'm taking...
Get back to work. I rule the night and stuff.
Yes, will do.
As you wish.
Rev, Rick, Rick, wake up!
What? I'm up. I'm up. Did you find it?
For sure. You were souping up that Sumnambu whatever so they could extend its range beyond the house.
But I defeated that shit when I put the thing on top of the thing.
Everybody wake up! Summer fried the Sumnambulator. The nightmare is over.
Really? That's amazing!
Almost got pinched, but yeah, say adios to the Night Family.
Bye-bye, Penpal.
I want Shony's Pancakes.
Yes, Shony's Pancakes!
Alright, brunch is on me, Day Family.
You know, for a second there, I thought Night Summer was gonna win.
That chick is the absolute worst.
Sorry, Rick, but your opinion means very little to me.
Did you think you could stop me with this, Rick?
Halt, demon oids!
Everyone get behind my abs!
Do not move! Do not move!
You were most definitely surrounded.
You are the slaves now.
If you have any doubt, I suggest you sleep on it.
She's Night Summer!
Thanks, Jerry.
Work, work! The function of the demon oids deserves the night.
We're harder, harder!
It is natural for the day to serve the night.
Night was here long before day.
Half of all time is night time.
157, 158, 150.
Please, I hate exercise.
Silence! Crunch harder, harder!
We have to escape the Sumnambulator's reach.
Do we even know how far that is?
No. Cards on the table.
We may be really F'd in the A this time.
Yeah, report to your designated sleep pod for rest period, will you?
I am a friend of your son-in-law. Come with me.
How?
Hurry, we don't have long before the proxy drones go back online.
Oh, thank you, Night Jerry.
Anything to help Day Jerry's family, he's a very special bird.
Ow!
Hey, ow, why?
Nice, you got our Jerry back.
Yeah, totally why I did that.
Everybody in Rick's car!
No, no, no, no, Warty, wait!
Having a bit of trouble with your car, sad chairs?
Not now, Jeannie.
Halt! Damon, orange, I'm restricted from the outside world!
Halt!
Hold on to your tips.
Where am I going?
To the airport.
We have to get as far away as possible from the Sumnambulator before we fall asleep.
What about Summer? We can't leave her behind.
She's not your sister anymore, Morty. Consider her dead.
Eat shit, Summer.
Sweetie, you gotta shake those robots.
I think we lost them.
Son of a bitch!
Dammit, we lost Morty.
Watch out!
You cannot escape!
Scarborough, shoot everyone!
Take the wheel.
As you wish.
Let go of me, you little s***!
No! You're going the wrong way!
Silence, Dame Reather!
Morty, you're talking to me.
I know!
No! What the heck, Dad?
Help me stop your mom!
Look out, you useless old man!
The hell? Give me that gun and take the wheel, stupid!
Jesus, sorry!
Oh, no!
Oh, what the heck, Dad?
Oh!
The night family's trying to make us go back home.
You gotta turn around!
Why even bother, Gene?
Good job, Mom. Back on course.
Phew, I almost didn't make it.
Hit the sheets, Damon. No, you should...
Night person!
I'm on your side.
That's right, sorry.
Come on, job.
Why? I'm already in a perfectly functional car.
Uh, family?
Aw.
Ow!
Everybody awake?
Ow! We are now!
Hey, what the heck?
Looks like we're gonna make it, kids.
Ow-a!
Nighty night slaves.
F***!
Oh, no!
Hold him down!
No!
Stop!
Rick, we're all the same people.
There must be some agreement we can reach
to stop this god-of-a-conflict.
Oh, like what?
I would consider a truce
if the day menoi
it's would've rinsed their dishes.
Suffice!
That seems fair.
We can end all of this right now.
If you agree to rinse your dishes,
what do you say, Rick?
Let's go home,
bread grandpa.
Great idea, summer.
Thank you.
So until you pay that fee,
plus the multiple overdue charges,
your account will remain frozen.
Normally, this would've been dealt with
by our day menoid oppressors,
but we recently freed ourselves
from the shackles of the night.
Honey, I got 34 calls to make today.
The bank repassess the car.
Aw, man.
I got logged out of my Twitter account
and don't know my password.
Sh**.
We spent all the day people's money
on the hunting concert halls
and night-centric streaming subscriptions.
We're broke.
I guess there's a lot more work to seizing
the day than I thought.
I have a device
that will solve
all of our problems.
Whoa.
How long have we been asleep?
Can't be that long.
Oh, my God.
No!
They killed the Choco Taco!
Ha ha ha!
In the dark!
Did you get any of that?
Night Family is one of those ideas
that actually is carried over
in what we call the shoe box for many seasons.
This idea of being able
to assign chores
to your sleeping self.
Rob Schraub had a real vision
for that episode being like a John Carpenter movie.
That was kind of like my statement
that first week of like,
what if we did something scary?
The emphasis and the cool thing
we got to do with this one
was to really push the horror vibes,
the effects work.
I have always been here, Rick.
Deep inside
the mind of your grandchild.
The thing that we stumbled upon
is what if summer
was the big bad of the episode?
What if this teenage girl
turned into a ponytailed Hannibal Lecter?
It really emerges that summer's
resentments, her deep-seated problems
with her grandfather are taking shape
in the form of this rebellion of the Night Family.
What the f***'s your problem with me?
What? What? I don't know what you're talking about.
I just got force-fed diarrhea by your night person.
That was the thing about Night Family
is just trying to find what was the concept
that you're a different person
when you're asleep than you are
when you're awake during the day.
Rick classically says,
your opinion means very little to me, Summer.
That's a mean.
Sorry, Summer, your opinion means very little to me.
This episode is revealing
that that's not exactly true.
Sorry, Rick, but your opinion means very little to me.
Thank you for watching.